Now, let's look at Gini impurity and practice calculating in code.
So, Gini impurity like entropy is a way to measure how disorganized the observations
are before and after splitting them using a feature.
So, there's an impurity value calculated for each node.
In the formula, frequency sub I over here,
is the frequency of label I.
C is the number of unique labels at that node.
So, in this case, C stands for a class, as in classifier.
So, here's some practice examples.
What is the impurity if there's a single class?
So, that means that the frequency sub zero,
is one per 100 percent,
and the impurity we use this formula, negative one,
times the frequency of this class,
times one, minus the frequency.
So, if you print out the impurity,
impurity of a homogeneous sample with a single label is zero.
The next example is,
what is the impurity if there are
two classes and there are 90 percent of samples for one label,
and 10 percent for the other?
So, this is saying frequency sub one is 0.9 and frequency sub two is 0.1.
So, again, we just implement this formula that we see here.
Negative one, times the frequency sub one times one,
minus frequency sub one then plus,
because we're doing a summation here,
negative one times frequency sub two,
times one minus frequency sub two.
So, the impurity when 90 percent are of one label,
and 10 percent are of the other, is negative 0.18.
So, it's no longer zero.
In absolute values, it's more than zero,
in absolute value terms.
So, try out this quiz.
What is the impurity if there are two classes of label,
and there are 50 percent of samples for one label and 50 percent for the other?
So, once you try it out,
try to answer these questions.
Is the impurity larger or smaller in magnitude,
in terms of absolute value,
when the samples are dominated by a single class?
Second question, is the impurity larger or smaller in magnitude,
in terms of absolute value,
when the frequency of each class is more evenly distributed among classes?
Go ahead and try this out,
answer these questions and then check out the solution video. Thanks.